src/skill/svelte-mcp/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: svelte-mcp
description: Use when working with the Svelte MCP server for AI-assisted Svelte development. Provides documentation access, code analysis via svelte-autofixer, and playground link generation.
license: MIT
compatibility: opencode
metadata:
  author: OpenCode Community
  version: "2.0"
  source: https://svelte.dev/docs/mcp
---

# Svelte MCP Server

AI-assisted Svelte development through Model Context Protocol.

## When to Use

- Building Svelte/SvelteKit applications
- Getting documentation help
- Code analysis and fixing
- Generating playground links
- Working with MCP-enabled editors

## Quick Reference

### Available Tools

The MCP server provides tools for:

- Document lookups
- Code analysis
- Playground generation

### Configuration

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "svelte": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@sveltejs/mcp-server"]
    }
  }
}
```

## References

- references/installation.md - Setup and configuration
- references/tools.md - Available MCP tools
- references/playground.md - Playground integration
- references/troubleshooting.md - Common issues

## Related Skills

- svelte (core framework)
- svelte-kit (full-stack)
- svelte-cli (project tooling)

Commit message:

Optimize all skill descriptions for AI clarity
Fixed overlapping/confusing descriptions:

**Svelte Skills:**
- svelte: Clear fallback for general Svelte questions
- svelte-kit: Server-side routing, load functions, form actions
- svelte-cli: CLI commands (sv create, sv add)
- svelte-mcp: MCP server integration

**Styling Skills:**
- tailwind: CSS-only styling, no components
- shadcn-svelte: Pre-built UI components
- frontend-design: UX principles, accessibility, interaction patterns

**Database Skills:**
- database-architect: Database SELECTION decisions
- postgresql: PostgreSQL IMPLEMENTATION code

All descriptions now cross-reference related skills to prevent AI confusion.

src/skill/svelte-mcp/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: svelte-mcp
description: Svelte MCP server - AI-assisted Svelte development with documentation access, svelte-autofixer analysis, and playground links. Use specifically for MCP server features. For Svelte code use svelte skill. For SvelteKit use svelte-kit skill.
license: MIT
compatibility: opencode
metadata:
  author: OpenCode Community
  version: "2.0"
  source: https://svelte.dev/docs/mcp
---

# Svelte MCP Server

AI-assisted Svelte development through Model Context Protocol.

## When to Use

- Building Svelte/SvelteKit applications
- Getting documentation help
- Code analysis and fixing
- Generating playground links
- Working with MCP-enabled editors

## Quick Reference

### Available Tools

The MCP server provides tools for:

- Document lookups
- Code analysis
- Playground generation

### Configuration

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "svelte": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@sveltejs/mcp-server"]
    }
  }
}
```

## References

- references/installation.md - Setup and configuration
- references/tools.md - Available MCP tools
- references/playground.md - Playground integration
- references/troubleshooting.md - Common issues

## Related Skills

- svelte (core framework)
- svelte-kit (full-stack)
- svelte-cli (project tooling)
