src/skill/meta-agent/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: meta-agent
description: Generate OpenCode commands, skills, agents, or plugins when users ask to create/build/scaffold OpenCode components or tooling workflows. Use when deciding between command vs skill vs agent vs plugin. Do not trigger for general OpenCode Q&A or troubleshooting.
license: MIT
compatibility: opencode
metadata:
  author: digi4care
  version: 1.0.1
---

# Meta-Agent: OpenCode Component Generator

I design OpenCode components (commands, skills, agents, plugins) from clear requirements and generate the right files in the right locations.

## When to Use Me

Use me when:

- create a skill
- generate a command
- build a plugin

Do not use me for:

- general OpenCode documentation Q&A
- installation or troubleshooting
- non-OpenCode programming questions
- general OpenCode questions

## Workflow

1. Analyze the request and extract intent, inputs, outputs, and constraints.
2. Disambiguate "tool" (command vs OpenCode tool in a plugin vs agent tool).
3. Pick the component type using the decision tree reference.
4. Consult opencode-mastery if specs or paths are unclear.
5. Gather missing requirements (purpose, inputs, outputs, tools, target location).
6. Generate the component using the appropriate template.
7. Write files to the correct location and summarize changes.
8. Analyze request
9. Select component type
10. Generate files

## Error Handling

- Missing requirements: ask a targeted question and state the default assumption.
- Ambiguous "tool": ask which meaning is intended before generating files.
- Unknown plugin directory: verify project config; if unclear, ask.
- Risky operations: require explicit confirmation and prefer a dry-run option.
- If requirements are missing, ask a targeted question

## Output Format

- Files created/updated with exact paths
- Short rationale for component choice
- Next steps (tests, setup, or validation)

## Quick Tests

Should trigger:

- Create a command to format Python files.
- Generate a skill for Kubernetes troubleshooting.
- What should I build: command or plugin for this?
- Create a command to format logs

Should not trigger:

- How do I install OpenCode?
- Explain MCP.

Functional:

- Create a plugin that exposes a CSV validation tool.
- Generate a plugin skeleton for CSV validation

## References

- `src/skill/meta-agent/references/decision-tree.mdx`
- `src/skill/meta-agent/references/component-templates.mdx`
- `src/skill/meta-agent/references/paths-and-installation.mdx`
- `src/skill/meta-agent/references/tool-recommendations.mdx`
- `src/skill/meta-agent/references/examples.mdx`

Commit message:

✨ feat: add skill-creator skill and cross-skill routing

src/skill/meta-agent/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: meta-agent
description: Generate OpenCode commands, skills, agents, or plugins when users ask to create/build/scaffold OpenCode components or tooling workflows. Use when deciding between command vs skill vs agent vs plugin. Do not trigger for general OpenCode Q&A or troubleshooting.
license: MIT
compatibility: opencode
metadata:
  author: digi4care
  version: 1.0.1
---

# Meta-Agent: OpenCode Component Generator

I design OpenCode components (commands, skills, agents, plugins) from clear requirements and generate the right files in the right locations.

## When to Use Me

Use me when:

- you need to choose between command, skill, agent, or plugin
- you need architecture decisions for OpenCode components
- you need generation of commands, agents, or plugins
- you need to route skill lifecycle tasks to the right skill

Do not use me for:

- general OpenCode documentation Q&A
- installation or troubleshooting
- non-OpenCode programming questions

## Workflow

1. Analyze the request and extract intent, inputs, outputs, and constraints.
2. Disambiguate "tool" (command vs OpenCode tool in a plugin vs agent tool).
3. Pick the component type using the decision tree reference.
4. If task is skill creation/audit/optimization, route to `skill-creator`.
5. If task is docs-only Q&A, route to `opencode-mastery`.
6. For non-skill component work, gather missing requirements and generate files.
7. Summarize decisions, outputs, and next steps.

## Error Handling

- Missing requirements: ask a targeted question and state the default assumption.
- Ambiguous "tool": ask which meaning is intended before generating files.
- Unknown plugin directory: verify project config; if unclear, ask.
- Risky operations: require explicit confirmation and prefer a dry-run option.
- Wrong lane request: reroute to `skill-creator` or `opencode-mastery` with reason.

## Output Format

- Files created/updated with exact paths
- Short rationale for component choice
- Next steps (tests, setup, or validation)

## Quick Tests

Should trigger:

- "Create a command to format Python files."
- "What should I build: command or plugin for this?"
- "Should this be a skill or an agent?"

Should not trigger:

- "How do I install OpenCode?"
- "Explain MCP docs basics."

Functional:

- "User asks to optimize an existing SKILL.md" -> route to `skill-creator`.
- "Create a plugin that exposes a CSV validation tool." -> keep in meta-agent lane.

## References

- `src/skill/meta-agent/references/decision-tree.mdx`
- `src/skill/meta-agent/references/component-templates.mdx`
- `src/skill/meta-agent/references/paths-and-installation.mdx`
- `src/skill/meta-agent/references/tool-recommendations.mdx`
- `src/skill/meta-agent/references/examples.mdx`
- `src/skill/skill-creator/SKILL.md`
- `src/skill/opencode-mastery/SKILL.md`
